Now that we have seen, how do we execute the import and export statements with normal DML files?
Now let's try to understand the syntax in detail.
Let me remind you that to run import export with HTML and JavaScript only, you will need to configure
a server IDE.
If you upload on any live server, it will work.
We have already seen in the previous section.
So now let's proceed further with understanding the syntax.
There are two ways of using export and import for a module in JavaScript.
The first way is named export or import, and the second is the default, export and import.
In this section, we will go through the named export syntax.
All right.
So now we have this index start adjustment file and I have already created a Kelsey dot years in which
I am going to define two modules.
So I'll go to Kelsey year first.
Let's say I have a function called sum, which takes two parameters, very simple, and it returns A-plus.
B And let's also assume that you have one more function cube, which is going to return cube of a number.
So it will return eventually a into a into a so now if I want that this Kelsey Dodgers file should export
these two modules.
That is the sum module and the cube module.
Then you can use the named export.
Remember that that is one more key word called default, which we will see.
That is the default export.
But right now we are trying to understand the named export and import as well.
So here what I am going to do, I write export function some.
Similarly, if I want that this cube should also be exported, then I'll write export function.
Q This means the Kelsi dogs has two modules some and Cube, which is exported with the name called Sum
and Cube.
That's why it is the named export.
I'll go back to Index Dada DML Now let's say here I have some content of the page.
I'm seeing the page content or something important point here is I'm going to use the script tag and
I will say module type is equal to module.
That is that means I am going to import the module here.
That's what we have seen in the previous section where if you don't write this module, it won't work
here.
I'm going to say import now because the Kelsi Dodgers has a module called Sum and Cube.
I can say some.
The named import will always have a column bracket around the name.
So here when you imported, if you avoid curly brackets, it will give you added.
If you have default import, then certainly you don't need those curly braces.
But that's the next section right now because we have the named export we need to import with the curly
brackets.
Now you can certainly import the Q module in the next line with our next import statement, but that's
also fine.
You can just say that you want to import some and cube and you may have more modules also which you
can separate by a comma.
But here we have just two modules.
I'll say import some comma cube from what is the file name and the part.
So it is in the current folder.
So said our slash and the JavaScript file.
So now the modules are imported.
Next thing either I can execute this some and cube on some event like I can put a button and I can execute
this, but instead of that I'll straightaway use the module code so I'll say console.log some which
is taking two parameters.
Next is cube, which is taking only one parameter.
I'll say three here.
I'll just save this.
I'll go to the browser and I'm going to refresh this.
Let me just correct this.
Kelsey Dodds.
Yes.
Now I'm going to refresh this.
You see that both the modules are executed the way we wanted.
Again, I would like to remind you that I have configured the Chrome Web server.
That's why I'm able to run the import and export locally.
I have configured it.
You can also try that or else you can upload these files on server and run it now because this is a
named import and export.
You have different syntax as well.
For example, you want to export these modules with a single line.
For example, like this I can say export.
I can give a list of export I want, so I'll say some comma.
Q That's what I want to export from this.
Now, here, you may not have the export statement.
What I mean to say is in this particular file, you may have many functions, but let's say from this
file you just have to export only to maybe five functions as module.
Not that all modules you want to export, so you do not write export in front of all functions.
So what you can do is you may write export before specific functions in the file or at the later stage
at the bottom of the file, you just give the list of modules you want to export.
Let's save this.
Let me also check here.
Let me change the value so you get that.
That is a different output.
I'll say nine, comma five.
So now there will be a different output.
Let's go back to the browser now.
Again, I'm going to refresh and it is working absolutely fine.
So we tried one more way to export the module.
That is also a choice whether you want to export a module with a specific name or not.
Let's say inside of this, Kelsi is this is a some function, but when you want to export, you want
to give the name total.
So what you can do, you can see some as total.
Now, if you do this, that means you will have to import it with the name total only.
Let me just continue the current syntax and see what is the output.
You see, it says that the Kelsi does not provide an export named Sum.
So though the name of the function is some, but you are exporting it with the name total.
That means I'll have to change this name here as well.
I'll say total.
And the same goes to this particular line as well.
Now, if I run this, let me refresh.
You see, it's running now.
Now, let me just change this back to Sam and.
Here.
Also, I'll just say that I want to export the some.
Next thing is, when you import the named exports, you have a choice.
Assume that you have multiple exports here.
Now you have a situation where you want to import all the modules which are exported there.
By Kelcy Dages.
This is the syntax which you can use to import all the modules from a specific file.
In that case, the modules which are imported will become part of object.
That is the object, and you can use the dart operator to access the members or exports of the module.
Let's try that as well.
We have already exported two modules from Kelsea Diaz.
So the thing is, I'm going to just say, let me remove this.
I'll say Star, that means I want everything to be imported star as and here is the name.
Let's say I want to give name Kelcy only our calculator.
What I would do.
That's fine.
I just said Kelcy.
That means Kelcy becomes an object which will have this sum and cube as method of it.
So now if I just save this and try to execute it, you'll see that sum is not defined in chart sum or
Kub is not accessible because the import is now under this Kelcy Hood.
So now the next thing is you will write Kelcy out some.
And Kelsey docu.
Let me save this.
Go back to the browser.
And refresh.
So we get the output here.
The idea of importing all the modules like this is when you have a file which contains many modules
and all are to be imported, then you better use this in case if you are using the modern build tools
like Webpack, then it might happen that, let's say in this particular code you have imported all the
modules, let's say you have imported some and cube, but you do not use cube at any point of time.
Then the modern build tools may remove the cube function from the imported library.
So it's a kind of tree shaking happening.
So you always make sure that if you are using all the modules, then this is a better syntax.
But if you are not sure whether all the modules are to be used or not.
Better to go with individual named imports only.
So let's change this code back to the standard way.
That is, I would say, some common cube anyway in this case, because we are using both the modules,
this star as object syntax is equally applicable in this particular piece.
The way we have exported with a specific name using as keyword, the same thing we can do with import
as well.
So I can see some as total.
So let the sum be exported from this.
Consider just fine.
Let it be like this.
But when I imported, I want the name total.
So now again, you will have to use Total here.
So the ASCII keyword can be used with both import and export.
Let's also remove descalzi now because we don't need it.
I'll just say when we go back to the browser and let me just refresh this now you see that even though
the code is saying total.
It is working fine.
So these are the basic named important exports indexes.
There are a few more things.
But first of all, in the next section we'll begin with default, export and import, and then we'll
try a few more things in this section to deal with modules in more, better way.
Let's discuss the related questions for this topic.
The first question is what is named export and import?
We have already seen that we give a specific name to a module.
Not only that, there is also multiple exports happening when you have named export.
So when you have multiple exports per file, then you can use the named export.
The next question is can you avoid college brackets while importing a named module?
You cannot.
The syntax while importing the named module is always used.
Curly brackets.
If you do not use.
It won't work.
So you have to have these curly brackets while importing the named modules.
The next question is how can you import all named modules from a file?
Well, when you have to import all the modules together, you use the star sign and you use the as as
well.
Right here is the syntax.
So this is how you import all the modules under one name and then you use this object as an object dot
whatever members you have which are exported from a specific file.
Those are available with this DART operator.
So you can say object the function name like in our case we tried Kelsey Dart some or Kelsey dot q.
Next question is, is it a good practice to import all modules together?
Well, as such, I have discussed this particular point about whether it is good practice or not.
But here also I would like to rephrase all the things.
The point here is when you say import, all that is import star.
Let's say you are using the sum function, but you are not using the cube function with this particular
JavaScript code.
All the modules are imported.
Now Cube is not used and still it is imported, which is not good.
So ideally, when you know that you have all the modules used in the application, certainly you can
use this syntax.
But in case if you know that only two or three modules are used at specific level, the rest are used
in some other file, then it's better to go with precise names to import the module in the newer approaches
where we have build tools.
There might be unwanted modules, removal internally happening.
That is basically the tree shaking, but that doesn't happen when you are working without any build
tool.
You are just working with HTML JavaScript.
That is the core approach and then you have to take care that you need the module in that particular
page or file or not.
The next question is do the modules hoist well in S6 as such, that is no hoisting.
But for modules, yes, you do have hoisting.
So you can have a module like this which is used before the import statement is executed and it is absolutely
valid.
So you do have hoisting with modules.
It doesn't make much sense as such, but as long as the behavior is concerned, it does happen.
You ideally always import the modules on top of your code.
You don't do it at a later stage.
The next question is do you need the same name while importing a named module?
Or you can change that name.
Certainly you can do that.
You can use the as keyword and you can change the name.
We have already tried this even with export.
We tried this so you can see this syntax where we have the as and we are changing the name.